---
layout: post
title:  "Remix"
date:   2021-02-26 08:00 +0200
categories: insight, essay
lang: en
permalink: /remix/
---

<a href="https://youtu.be/5QwOpRh-IfI" target="_blank">This  video</a> shows how the song One More Time by Daft Punk was sampled. The song is based on an old 1979 song by Eddie Jones - More Spell On You. They cut out small sections of the song, lowered the tempo and looped the sections in different orders, to suddenly having an entirely new song nothing like the original.

It struck me that artists do this a lot, and they do it deliberately. It's part of their creative process. So why don't we take advantage of this technique in other areas than just music?

We can use the technique when we want a new idea for a startup or a company. For a new product or a service. When we have a problem we need solved. Or when you want to write a new article or a book. I think this technique can be used for anything that demands a little creativity. 

The technique is as follows:

Let's take one or more original works. Then let's cut them into pieces and just keep the pieces we want to use. We can then transform these pieces if we like, loop them and put them back together again in a new order.

Design is about breaking things apart and putting them back together. That should mean we can make a new design my breaking things apart, change them a little, add new things and put them back together differently than the original.

We're so preoccupied of original ideas that we tend to forget that the original works we so admire often are made of such processes and techniques. Like Picasso said "Good artists copy, great artists steal".
